In the last lecture we changed our custom button to respect the platform we're running on,
now I want to make sure we're loading different icons and let's do that in our tab bar for example, so here
in startMainTabs in the MainTabs folder in the screens folder. There we load some icons and we always
load iOS icons except for the map where I chose that I liked the material one better.
Now we don't need to do that anymore,
we can always pick that one which is the right one for the given platform.
To do that, I first of all will add another import here at the top, I'll import platform from react native
and then we can simply add ternary expression here to determine what we want to load.
I can reach out to platform OS and check if it's equal to Android let's say
and if it is, then I want to use md-map for material design map which is the android style and otherwise
for other platforms, I will use iOS map.
The cool thing about icon is you can always just replace the prefix here, md and so on with the
respective platform prefix or the styling prefix and the main icon name, like map here is always the same.
So let's copy this ternary expression down to the second icon
and therefore Android,
I of course don't want to fetch iOS share alt,
that should be my alternative, my else case instead, for Android
I'll fetch md-share-alt
and now the same for iOS menu down there, for Android
I want to pick md-menu. Now with all that,
let's save that,
let's go back to our application and let's reload both apps
and submit and now you indeed see different styles here, you see the manual looks relatively equal but
on the map, you see it really well. On the share icon, not so much,
we could go back and change ios-share-alt to ios-share to be closer to the well original ios-share
icon and now if we reload iOS, we see a distinctively different share icon there too.
So now we really get different icons for the different devices,
now we've got one more icon here in the side menu,
so let's also make sure we picked the right one here.
For that let's go to the side drawer component we have,
here it is and there where I include my icon, here name ios-log-out,
well we probably want to resolve this dynamically too. So we can also wrap this with curly braces and
import the platform in this file too from react native and then go down to our name and check platform
OS, check if it's equal to Android
and if it is, I want to use md-log-out otherwise I'll use ios-log-out and of course you could revert
this and check for iOS,
whichever one you want to prefer
or you write a really long if statement.
However if you want to see which values OS can get, here is an overview,
in my IDE I can hold command and click on OS and you see it's iOS, Android, Mac OS, Windows or web
but with you building a real native app, you're pretty certain we end up with iOS or Android.
So now I got this added here and I should load different log out icons,
now one other place where we got an icon though is the place detail where we got this trash bin here.
Let's also import platform here in place detail and then let's add a ternary expression here too, I'll
wrap this with curly braces and then check platform OS
if it's equal to Android, in which case I want to use md-trash as an icon and only if that's not the
case I'll use ios-trash and I'll also move this into a new line.
So now we got this check in place detail too,
we added this in the side drawer,
let's save all files and move back and reload both apps to see if that looks differently.
If we submit and we open the drawer in Android,
this looks like a material design icon and certainly looks different than the iOS icon does.
Now if we add a place to see how the trash bin looks like, let's add Munich again, share the place and
click on find place,
there we now see Munich,
we got this trash bin here,
now let's also create one on Android.
So let's enter Munich here too, share the place and go there and open the place, that looks like a different
trash bin to me too.
So that's all working, we get different styles here too,
that's really nice.
Now with that, you saw how to use the platform API
and you can use it anywhere you want not just for icons obviously, you can use it to do whatever you
want, you can use in any if statement, you can render this view only on Android if you think that this would
be a good idea,
if you need that in your app, do it. Platform
OS is a great tool to really build different apps or the same app with some different features for different
platforms.
With that, let's see what else we can do for different platforms.